[DOCS] Updates Discover docs (#82773)
elastic/kibana: docs/user/discover.asciidoc

and then visualize your findings on a dashboard.

For this tutorial, your goal is to better manage your product inventory.  You want to
know the top-selling products and on what day of the week these products sell the most.

[float]
[[find-the-data-you-want-to-use]]
=== Step 2. Find your data

Tell {kib} where to find the data you want to explore, then specify the time range in which to view that data.

. Open the main menu, and select **Discover**.

. Select the data you want to work with.
+
{kib} uses an <<index-patterns,index pattern>> to tell it where to find
your {es} data.
To view the ecommerce sample data, make sure the index pattern is set to **kibana_sample_data_ecommerce**.
+
[role="screenshot"]
image::images/discover-index-pattern.png[How to set the index pattern in Discover]

. Adjust the time range to view data for the *Last 7 days*.
+
NOTE: The range selection is based on the default time field in your data.
If you are using the sample data, this value was set when you added the data.
If you  are using your own data, and it does not have a time field, the range selection is not available.

. To view the count of documents for a given time in the specified range,

> click and drag the mouse over the histogram, and then click *Refresh*.

Reviewer: You shouldn't need to click refresh when you select a time range in Discover by the histogram. You click on the start of the range, drag to the end, end when you release the mouse button, it's refreshed automatically

[float]
[[explore-fields-in-your-data]]
=== Step 3. Explore the fields in your data

**Discover** includes a table that shows all the documents that match your search.
By default, the table includes columns for the time field and the document `_source`,
which can be overwhelming. You’ll modify this table to display only your fields of interest.

. Scan through the list of **Available fields** to see
what’s in your data. You can also search for a field by name.

> . Find the `manufacturer` field, and then click it to view the five most popular values for that field.

Reviewer: Just a side note, not sure if we should mention it. Discover fetches a maximum of 500 docs, and the popular values are calculated by these 500 docs

+
[role="screenshot"]
image:images/document-table.png[Document table with fields for manufacturer, geo.country_iso_code, and day_of_week]

. To rearrange the table columns, hover the mouse over a
column header, and then use the move and sort controls.

[float]
[[search-in-discover]]
=== Step 4. Search your data

One of the unique capabilities of **Discover** is the ability to combine
free text search with filtering based on structured data.
To search all fields, enter a simple string in the **Search** field. To search particular fields and
build more complex queries, use the <<kuery-query,Kibana Query language>>.
As you type, KQL prompts you with the fields you can search and the operators
you can use to build a structured query.

Search the ecommerce data for documents where the country matches US:

. Enter `g`, and then select *geoip.country_iso_code*.
. Select *equals some value* and *US*, and then click *Update*.
. For a more complex search, try:
+
`geoip.country_iso_code : US and products.taxless_price >= 75`

[float]
[[filter-in-discover]]
=== Step 5. Filter your data

Whereas the query defines the set of documents you are interested in,

> filters enable you to zero in on different subsets of those documents.

Reviewer: TIL: to zero in .. nice

You can filter results to include or exclude specific fields,

> filter by data type, filter for a value in a range, and more.

Reviewer: Filter for values, ranges, documents that contain or don't contain fields, yes ... but filtering by data type, I'm not 100% sure what that means in this case

[partintro]
--
**_Tell {kib} where to find your data, then search and filter it for hidden insights and relationships._**

> You’ve added your data, and now you’re ready to dig in. You have questions about your data.

Author: I'd prefer not to have back-to-back bulleted lists at the top of the doc.

What events were logged most recently? What pages on your website contain a
specific word or phrase? What processes on your server take longer than 500 milliseconds to respond?

> This tutorial shows you how to use {kib} *Discover* to quickly search large amounts of

Author: Fixed

data and understand what’s going on at any given time.

> You’ll learn to:

Author: I'd like to use the wording "you'll learn to".  I try to figure out softer wording.

> - **Select** data for your exploration, including setting a time range,

Author: fixed

searching with the {kib} query language, and limiting results with filtering options.
- **Explore** the details of your data, view individual documents, and create tables
that summarize the contents of the data.
- **Present** your findings in reports and visualizations.

At the end of this tutorial, you’ll be ready to start exploring with your own
data in *Discover*.

[role="screenshot"]
image::images/Discover-Start.png[Discover]

[float]
=== Prerequisites

- If you don’t already have {kib}, set it up with https://www.elastic.co/cloud/elasticsearch-service/signup?baymax=docs-body&elektra=docs[our free trial].
- You must have data in {es}.  This guide uses the
<<gs-get-data-into-kibana,ecommerce sample data set>>, but you can use your own data.
- You should have an understanding of {ref}/documents-indices.html[{es} documents and indices].

[float]
[[whats-you-goal-in-discover]]
=== What’s your goal?

Most users have one of two goals in mind when exploring their data:

> - **Get an overview of what is happening.**

Reviewer 2: It would be cool if these goals were tied to the tutorial. Like a nice set up for what questions they'll have answered when they get to the bottom of the page.

> - **Get an overview of what is happening.**

Author: Put Discover in the intro sentence.

For example, you might want to look at the logs captured in your {es} cluster to
get information on the health and performance of your cloud-deployed software over time.
You can save your findings for later use when making decisions about maintenance and improvements.

- **Find an answer to a specific question.** Consider if you are looking at
Github statistics and are interested in the number of pull requests that went
into a patch release and who contributed to the release. You want to visualize
this data and present it to your coworkers.

What is your goal?  The answer to this question will lead your explorations.

[float]
[[find-the-data-you-want-to-use]]
=== Step 1. Find the data you want to use

> Tell {kib} where to find your data, then set a time range for your exploration.

Author: Rewrote to focus on data.

. Open the main menu, and select **Discover**.
+
With **Discover**, you can perform ad-hoc analysis of your data in real-time.
It’s where you’ll find hidden insights and relationships and emerging trends in your data.

. Select the data you want to work with by choosing an <<index-patterns,index pattern>>.
+
{kib} requires an index pattern to tell it which Elasticsearch indices you want to work with.
To view the ecommerce sample data, make sure the index pattern is set to **kibana_sample_data_ecommerce**.
+
[role="screenshot"]
image::images/discover-index-pattern.png[How to set the index pattern in Discover]

. Adjust the time range to *Last 7 days*.
+
NOTE: The range selection is based on the default time field in your data.
If you are using the sample data, this value was set when you added the data.
If you  are using your own data, and it does not have a time field, the range selection is not available.

> . Optional. To view the count of documents for a given time,

Reviewer 2: Super nit: To make this a full sentence, how about:

To optionally view the (number?) of documents for a given time, click the drag the mouse over the histogram, and then click **Refresh**.

click and drag the mouse over the histogram, and then click *Refresh*.

[float]
[[explore-fields-in-your-data]]
=== Step 2. Explore the fields in your data

> The sortable documents table lists the documents that match your search.

Reviewer 2: Is `sortable` necessary?

By default, the table includes columns for the time field and the document `_source`.

> You’ll modify this table to display your fields of interest.  For this guide,

Reviewer 2: guide or tutorial?

the goal is to dig into the ecommerce data and find fields that
help determine when and where to target your ads.

> . In the side navigation, scan through the list of **Available fields** to see

Reviewer 2: This is not a side navigation. It is a list of available fields.

what’s in your data. You can also search for a field by name using the

> **Search** field at the top of the list.

Reviewer 2: I don't think we're allowed to use `top`

> . Find the `manufacturer` field, and then click it to view its top five values.

Reviewer 2: Why do they want to view the top five values? How does this help them answer their questions?

+
[role="screenshot"]
image:images/filter-field.png[Fields list that displays the top five search results]

> . Click the add icon to toggle the field into the document table.

Reviewer 2: In [Writing for and about the user interface (UI)](https://wiki.elastic.co/pages/viewpage.action?pageId=105914797), it says not to use the word `icon`. We should follow the same guidelines in the docs.

. Add `geoip.country_iso_code` and `day of week` so your document table looks like this:
+
[role="screenshot"]
image:images/document-table.png[Document table with fields for manufacturer, geo.country_iso_code, and day_of_week]

> . To rearrange the table columns to suit your needs, hover the mouse over a

Reviewer 2: Is `to suit your needs` necessary?

> column header for move and sort controls.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
column header, and then use the move and sort controls.
```

[float]
[[search-and-filter-in-discover]]
=== Step 3. Search and filter your data

One of the unique capabilities of **Discover** is the ability to combine free text search with filtering based on structured data.

> . Enter your search terms in the **Search** field.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
. Enter your terms in the **Search** field.
```

+
To search all fields, enter a simple string. To search particular fields and
build more complex queries, use the <<kuery-query,Kibana Query language>>.
As you type, KQL prompts you with the fields you can search and the operators
you can use to build a structured query.
+
To search the ecommerce data for documents where the country matches US.
+

> .. Type `g` and then select `geoip.country_iso_code`.

Reviewer 2: Type or enter?

.. Select *equals some value* and *US*, and then click *Update*.
.. For a more complex search, try:
+
`geoip.country_iso_code : US and products.taxless_price >= 75`

. To zero in on a subset of documents, add filters.
+
Whereas the query defines the set of documents you are interested in,
filters enable you to zero in on different subsets of those documents.
You can filter results to include or exclude specific fields,
filter by data type, filter for a value in a range, and more.

.. Click **Add filter**.
.. Set Field to `day_of_week`, Operator to `is not`, and value to `Wednesday`.
.. Save the filter.

. Continue your exploration by adding and removing filters.
+
To remove a filter,
click the close icon (x) next to its name in the filter bar.

[float]
[[look-inside-a-document]]
=== Step 4.  Look inside a document

Now dive into an individual document and view the details of that event.

. In the document table, expand any document.
+
[role="screenshot"]
image:images/document-table-expanded.png[Table view with document expanded]

. Scan through the fields and their values.
+
To apply filters and toggle a field into the table, hover over a field name for the controls.

> . To view documents that occurred closest in time this event, click View surrounding documents.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
. To view documents that occurred before or after the event, click **View surrounding documents**.
```

> . To view document data as a separate page, click View single document.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
. To view document data as a separate page, click **View single document**.
```

+

> You can bookmark and share the link for direct access to a particular document.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
For direct access to a particular document, you can bookmark and share the document link.
```

[float]
[[save-your-search]]
=== Step 5.  Save your search for later use

> Save your search so you can repeat it later or use it in visualizations and dashboards.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Save your search so you can use it later or use it in visualizations, dashboards, and Canvas workpads.
```

> Saving a search saves both the query you created and the additional filters you added.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Saving a search saves the query you created and the additional filters you added.
```

. In the toolbar, click **Save**.

. Give your search a title, and then click **Save**.

[float]
[[share-findings-in-a-report]]
=== Step 6. Share your findings in a report

Want to share your findings with your peers? Export your data into a spreadsheet.

. In the toolbar, click **Share**, then **CSV Reports**.

> . Click Generate **CSV**.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
. Click **Generate CSV**.
```

+
Your report is available in **Stack Management > Reporting**.

[float]
=== Step 7. Visualize your findings
If a field can be {ref}/search-aggregations.html[aggregated], you can quickly
visualize it from **Discover**.

> . In the side navigation, click  `day_of_week` and then click **Visualize**.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
. From the **Available fields** list, click  `day_of_week`, and then click **Visualize**.
```

+
{kib} creates a visualization best suited for this field.
+
[role="screenshot"]
image:images/visualize-from-discover.png[Visualization that opens from Discover based on your data]

> . Customize the visualization and then save it  for use in a dashboard.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
. Customize the visualization and then save it for use in a dashboard or Canvas workpad.
```

[float]
=== What’s next?

There’s much more you can do with your data.

> * <<kuery-query,Learn more about KQL>>.  This page has examples for you to follow.

Reviewer 2: `This page has examples for you to follow.` doesn't tell me much...

* <<kibana-discover-settings, Configure Discover>> to better meet your needs.

> In Advanced Settings, you can configure the number of documents to show, configure the context view, and more.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
In **Advanced Settings**, you can configure the number of documents to show, configure the context view, and more.
```

* <<dashboard,Create a dashboard>> with even more awesome visualizations, like treemaps, metrics, and tables.

> 

Reviewer 2: * Create a Canvas workpad...
